# Are-All-Shortcuts-in-Encoder-Decoder-Networks-Necessary-for-Computed-Tomography-Denoising-
Code and Supplementary Materials for manuscript 'Are All Shortcuts in Encoder-Decoder Networks Necessary for Computed Tomography Denoising?'

The aim of this project is finding out the necessarity of all shortcuts in encoder-decoder network for medcial image denoising task. In deep learning era, a series of publications have shown that generative model based methods has become the state-of-art method. As an important generative model, encoder-decoder network has been used in medical image denoising. Shortcuts are improtant parts for encoder-decoder network when it was used for segmentation and style transfer, however, are they still important for denoising task? More details of about this paper you can find in our papers. Here are the codes of paper'Are All Shortcuts in Encoder-Decoder Networks Necessary for CT Denoising?'

First of all, datasets which were used in our papaer can be found in Low Dose CT Grand Challenge (https://www.aapm.org/GrandChallenge/LowDoseCT/, called as LDGC in the following section)  and NSCLC-Radiomics(https://wiki.cancerimagingarchive.net/display/Public/NSCLC-Radiomics, called as LUNG 1 in the following section).

As we mentionded in the paper, we simulated noisy images based on LDGC and LUNG 1, we used Addnoiseinradiomic.m to finish this task, a matlab script.

We used tfrecord as the input file of our encoder-decoder network, therefore, we need make tfrecord based on paired noised and standard images at first. This part of job was finsihed by using Tfwrite.py, a python script.

The generated tfrecords were used to train the encoder-decoder network and then the trained network used to denoise images. This part of job was finished by Second-Encoder-Decoder-networkRealdata.py, a python script.

We used pretrained VGG-16 network to calculate content loss, the pretrained network can be found in https://mega.nz/#!YU1FWJrA!O1ywiCS2IiOlUCtCpI6HTJOMrneN-Qdv3ywQP5poecM

The statistical data used in paper 'Are All Shortcuts in Encoder-Decoder Networks Beneficial for CT Denoising?' store in directory Statistical Data in this Repository. There are 16 excel files in this directory root from 16 group of experiments. 

A file named as 'Clear LUNG-UNet Content loss- forward' means this file store the results for experiment based on U-Net and LUNG1 dataset is the test dataset in this experiment. Moreover, loss metric of this experiment is content loss and shortcuts are removed in forward moving, The other files are named follow with this manner.

In the files, you can find label to indicate results root from high noisy images or low noisy images in first row. Moreover, you can find the number of moved shortcuts for experiments in second row. In some files, you may find the sum of each column in the last row.